Title: Using Dislocker on Ubuntu to Mount BitLocker Disks - 在 Ubuntu 上怎样用 Dislocker 去使用 BitLocker 加密的U盘和硬盘
Date: 2017-05-06 18:00
Modified: 2017-05-06 18:00
Category: use
Tags: Ubuntu
Slug: 20170506
Authors: lancelotly
Summary:

After I encrypted my USB stick with [Microsoft's BitLocker](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/device-security/bitlocker/bitlocker-overview), I found that I need to find a solution to make it work in my Ubuntu system either. The best way to solve this problem so far is using [Dislocker](https://github.com/Aorimn/dislocker) by Aorimn. 

As said in the description:

> This software has been designed to read BitLocker encrypted partitions under a Linux system.
> 
> The driver has the capability to read/write on:
>
> * Windows Vista, 7, 8, 8.1 and 10 encrypted partitions - that's AES-CBC, AES-XTS, 128 or 256 bits, with or without the Elephant diffuser, encrypted partitions;

## Install
It is easy to install Dislocker on Ubuntu.

Get the source code: (or unzip one from the release [https://github.com/Aorimn/dislocker/releases](https://github.com/Aorimn/dislocker/releases).)

`git clone https://github.com/Aorimn/dislocker.git`

Since I am on Ubuntu 17.04 now, I need the dependencies include:

`sudo apt install gcc cmake make libfuse-dev libmbedtls-dev ruby-dev`

Then just follow the [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/Aorimn/dislocker/blob/master/INSTALL.md) for making and installing.

```
cmake .
make
sudo make install
```

To uninstall:

`sudo make uninstall`

We will have the latest version in this way. Otherwise, we can also install one (an old version) from Ubuntu Software Center.

## Mounting

To mount a BitLocker drive we need two folders which are used as Dislocker container and drive files mount point.

So we need to have two folders (either on /media or /home; and the names we like. here I use "dislocker-container" and "drive" at /media as an example):

```
sudo mkdir /media/dislocker-container
sudo mkdir /media/drive
```

After this preparation, we need to get the path of the drive:

``sudo fdisk -l``

we keep the drive path, the "x" here represent the drive we need: 

> /dev/sdx:....

Then we mount the dislocker-contaner:

`dislocker-fuse -v -V /dev/sdx -u -- /media/dislocker-container`

-u here let us type in the BitLocker password.

Then we mount files:

`sudo mount -o loop /media/dislocker-container/dislocker-file /media/drive`

Now we can access the BitLocker drive at /media/drive.

To unmount the drive:

`sudo umount drive && sudo umount dislocker-container`

I faced that I could not write to the drive in GNU Files but not through Terminal at the beginning. It was self-fixed after reboot.

## Shell file

We have to run such two lines every time. It seems not good. So, I write a .sh shell script for mounting with a single run. 

First, we need to find the UUID (or part-UUID) of the USB stick to get rid of searching for a changeable drive name in /dev/sdx. We use "blkid" command:

`sudo blkid`

I have my USB stick:

> /dev/sdb1: PARTUUID="00000000-00"

Then we write the .sh script:

```shell
    #!/bin/bash
    echo "Preparing for mounting disk..."
    sudo dislocker-fuse -v -V /dev/disk/by-partuuid/00000000-00 -u -- /media/dislocker-container
    echo "Loading...."
    sudo mount -o loop /media/dislocker-container/dislocker-file drive
    echo "Done!"
```

{% codeblock lang:shell linenos:true %}
#!/bin/bash
echo "Preparing for mounting disk..."
sudo dislocker-fuse -v -V /dev/disk/by-partuuid/00000000-00 -u -- /media/dislocker-container
echo "Loading...."
sudo mount -o loop /media/dislocker-container/dislocker-file drive
echo "Done!"
{% endcodeblock %}

That's it! We just type (or double click to choose run-in-terminal):

`./start.sh`

Also, the un-mount shell script:

```shell
    #!/bin/bash
    echo "Preparing for unmounting disk..."
    sudo umount drive && sudo umount dislocker-container
    echo "Done!"
```
&#x1F411;